I remember when we were sophomores, there were
three of us in a room, Dummy McLaren, Hudson Van
Lone, and I. And Dummy was a real prankster. And one
time, and everybody in the battery knew that Dummy
was. And
one time, the seniors were having a meeting in the
captain's room, and Dummy tied a rope on the door
handle and affixed it to another door handle. And
then he threw a huge firecracker through the
transom into the middle of this meeting. And it
took the seniors some time to come to break that
door down, but they immediately came to our room
and Dummy was acting innocently, reading a
magazine on his bunk. And they just grabbed him,
they knew who it was, and dragged him out and we
heard the boards popping.
And nobody was hurt? Nobody was hurt, right.
Former students, faculty, friends, advisors, to
what Aggies do you feel the greatest depths of
gratitude now? Of my own self. To whom are you most
grateful for what they did for you in shaping your
life? I would think
Coach Anderson, character builder, track team
coach. J.P. Abbott, English professor, tennis
coach. John Reed, basketball coach.
And Harold Vance, who was the head of the Petroleum
Engineering Department. I think those four
people had as much influence on me and them as
anybody. Do you remember going to any of those
people or anyone else and getting some truly
meaningful advice, something that you realize
now? Yes, I think Harold Vance. Going to him and
talking to him about my future in the petroleum
industry and advice he gave me. And
I think it's probably been the Also, I'd say J.P.
Abbott, in talking to him, I
had always been interested in writing, and so I
have, the writing has been, I've done a number of, I
have a consulting business, and in doing
consulting reports, writing is very important.
I think the basics I learned on the applet have been
very helpful. I and two other guys also wrote a book
called The Dynamic Natural Gas Industry, which
was published by the University of Oklahoma
Press.
I'd say the basest thing I learned under Alpert
have been contributed to that. And you never had a
situation that some of us had where you were going
down this direction academically and you changed
your course and went another direction. No, I
never have. I knew what I was aiming for and have
been on that road ever since.
What have we overlooked? What have we not
mentioned that we should have?
I think maybe the subject of women at A&M, we
mentioned it, but I was very much opposed to women
being admitted to A&M. And I realize now that I was
wrong, that the the one thing you didn't learn at
A&M, I'd say, was relationship with women. And
that was the one thing A&M didn't put. And when I was
there, there were daughters of professors could
go there, and there were six daughters that were in
school at that time. How were they treated? Oh,
like queens, of course. But I'd say the, of course,
the admittance of women to A&M has made A&M come
from a very special military school to a first rate
financial, a first rate educational
institution. Now, that discussion was almost 40
years ago. Right. Why were you at that time opposed
to coeducation? I thought it would break down the
the bonding that existed and which accounted for
so many great military guys from A&M. And I thought
that at that time I wanted to see A&M continue as a
first-rate military academy with a first-rate
educational curriculum. Have you had any family
members or children of dear friends who've been
A&M coeds? No. No, I haven't. My daughter went to
Rollins. One of my daughters went to Rollins. And
another daughter went to Texas Tech. But the one
who went to Rollins in Florida,
they had no football team down there. And she is
bigger than I am. And I burned out my wife But when I
was president of the association, because having
to go to all these different events, my wife
finally said, you know, I've just had enough. And
so my daughter, eldest daughter, has gone to these
different A&M things.
I enjoyed telling the story when, in the same
place, in an interview with Billy Clayton, he
indicated he had been opposed to coeducation
also, and I said, why? And he said, I thought that
the women would kill the A&M spirit. Right, right,
same here. I said, you're kidding. He said, no, I'm
serious. And then he said, well, do the Aggie women
have any pride? And I said, sir, as far as I can tell,
the coeds now have more pride maybe than the males
do. He said, good, because I've got three
granddaughters there.
How do you feel about A&M's progress now? I think
it's excellent. I think the progress is
excellent. I've kept up with A&M by going to
various meetings and so forth, and I think the
progress is excellent. I do think that the bonfire
incident sort of shook up everything for a while.
But I think that it's very important as to who the
new president is.
Last question then. What feelings do you carry in
your heart for Texas A&M? One of great love and
devotion. You know, it's similar to my feelings
for my church and my family. As a matter of fact, I
have planned my own funeral, and in the funeral
I've asked that certain things be played. Amazing
grace. Here I am, Lord. And the Aggie War Hymn, I've
asked them to play that. Let's quit on that. Tell me
about any of the conversations you remember of the
former student officers about co-education and
non-compulsory core before you resigned as
president. Well, the reason I resigned was to run
for governor. But had the former student
leadership talked about those topics yet?
Well, let's see. Well,
actually, I remember I remember Wofford Cain, who
was on the Development Fund Board,
he was very much opposed to admitting women. And
actually, most of my classmates were opposed to
admitting women, just in talking to them. I don't
remember the But I think as I told you, John Lindsay
told me that he would never forgive me because when
I resigned to run for governor, he became the
president. And at the first association meeting,
Earl Rudder said, John, I want you to make a motion
to admit women. And John said, what? He said, make a
motion, John. Did you know that that was coming up
when you? No, I didn't. I didn't know that. So the
board, the association board had not discussed
that? No, they didn't know that. And John said that
He made the motion, and he said, all in favor say
aye, and there were only two or three ayes. All
opposed say no, and there was a thunderous number
of noes. And he hit the gavel and said, the ayes have
it. And that's how women were admitted to A&M. And
as I understand it, then they went down the
hallway. and told the, they were then called
directors, now regents, that the former student
had adopted that. I see. I didn't know that. That's
what I understood that they did. But this had not
been a subject of big discussion. No, it hadn't at
that time. You know, there was not planned
anything, but people were, most of the people I
knew were opposed to it.